Marker Interface/Empty Interface/Tag Interface/Ability Interface
If an interface does not contain any abstract method and by implementing that interface, our objects will get some ability, 
	such type of interfaces are called marker interfaces.

Example:
	Serializable interface- By implementing serializable interface, our object can be saved in a file and travel across network.
	Cloneable interface- By implementing clonable interface, our object are in a position, to produce exactly duplicate cloned object. 
	RandomAccess (ArrayList & Vector class implements RandomAccess interface, o retrieve elements)
	SingleThreadModel
	Remote
There interfaces are marked for some ability.

Q)Without having any method, how the objects will get some ability in marker interfaces?
Not in even mind, want to start trail for a 1st job search, in New York city:
	Thinking Problem
	Vitamin ‘M’ problem( money problem)
	Visa Problem
	New Environment Problem- No one is there to provide support
	Guidance Problem
	Home Sick Problem- Without parents cannot live-specially ladies have
	XYZ Problem- Without him/her
	Language Problem- Big gift given by British people
Lets suppose, This institute will provide support for all ur problem, until u get a job. 

Example:
Objective is to send Object from Gurgaon to SiliconValley 
Way 1: 70 laks of code in 12 network related language
Way 2: Object implements Seriazable and JVM will take care rest
Internally JVM is responsible to provide required ability.

Why JVM is providing required ability in Marker Interfaces?
	To reduce complexity of programming & to make Java language as simple.

Is it possible to create our own marker interface?
	Yes, but customization of JVM is required.

JVM for apache-
	JVM weblogic - JRocket : by sun/oracle



Adapter classes
Adapter is a simple java class that implements interface with only empty implementation.
It is programmers trick. It is not a language level feature.

If we implement an interface for each & every method of that interface, 
 compulsory we should provide implementation, whether it is required or not.
Instead of implementing interface, if we extends adapter class, 
	we have to provide implementation only for required methods 
	& we are not responsible to provide implementation for each 
	& every method of the interface. 
	So that length of the code will be reduced.
Adapter class decreases length of the code and increase readability.

Because there is no need of creating object of adapter class, hence recommended keyword for adapter class is abstract.
Example: 
More  or  less GenericServlet class acts as adapter class for Servlet interfae.
 
Marker interface & adapter classes simplifies complexity of programming 
	and these are best utilities to the programmer and programmers life will become simple.
	